adding data to pull the repos 
GIT
GLOBAL INFORMATION TRACKER
Git is used to track the fi les.
It will maintain multiple versions of the same fi le.
It is platform-independent.
It is free and open-source.
They can handle larger projects effi ciently.
It is 3rd generation of vcs.
it is written on c programming
it came on the year 2005
WORKING DIRECTORY:
In this stage git is only aware of having fi les in the project.
It will not track these fi les until we commit those fi les.
STAGING AREA:
The staging area is like a rough draft space, it's where you can git add the version of a fi le or multiple fi les that you want to save in your next commit.
In other words, in the next version of your project.
REPOSITORY:
Repository in Git is considered as your project folder.
A repository has all the project-related data.
It contains the collection of the fi les and also history of changes made to those fi les.
TYPES OF REPOSITORIES:
LOCAL REPO:
The Local Repository is everything in your .git directory. Mainly what you will see in your Local Repository are all of your checkpoints or commits. It is the area that saves everything (so don’t delete it).
REMOTE REPO:
The remote repository is a Git repository that is stored on some remote computer.
GIT ALTERNATIVES:
GIT LAB
SVN
BIT BUCKET
P4
STASH
HELIX
GIT WORK FLOW:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
INSTALL GIT:
command to install git : yum install git -y (yum: yellowdog updater modifi er)
To check the git version: git --version
to get empty repo : git init .
To track the fi le: git add fi le_name
To track the multiple fi les : git add aws azure gcp
all regular fi les: git add *
including hidden fi les: git add .
GIT ADD:
Git add command is a straightforward command. It adds fi les to the staging area.
We can add single or multiple fi les at once in the staging area.
Every time we add or update any fi le in our project, it is required to forward updates to the staging area.
The staging and committing are co-related to each other.
GIT COMMIT:
It is used to record the changes in the repository.
It is the next command after the git add.
Every commit contains the index data and the commit message.
GIT STATUS:
The git status command is used to display the state of the repository and staging area.
It allows us to see the tracked, untracked fi les and changes.
This command will not show any commit records or information.
GIT LOG: is a command in the Git version control system that shows a history of commits made in a Git repository. It displays a list of past changes, including information like the commit message, author, date, and a unique identifi er for each commit.
COMMANDS:
git log
used to see the history of the git
git log --oneline
used to see only commit ID's and messages
git log --pretty=oneline
Used to get only commit ID's and messages
git log -1
used to see the latest commit
git log -3
used to see latest 3 commits
git log --follow --all fi lename
used to see the no of commits for a single fi le
git log --graph --oneline --all
see all the history in graph
GIT AMEND: it is a Git command used to make changes to the most recent Git commit. It allows you to edit the commit message, add additional changes, or both.
COMMANDS:
git commit --amend -m "message"
used to change the commit message for a latest commit
git commit --amend --author "username <mail>"
used to change the author of latest commit
git commit --amend --no-edit
used to commit the changes with previous commit
GIT RESET: is a command in Git that allows you to move the HEAD and the current branch pointer to a specifi c commit, eff ectively "rewinding" or "resetting" your project's state. It's commonly used to undo changes or to unstage commits.
COMMANDS:
git reset --hard HEAD~1
used to delete the latest commit along with the changes
git reset --hard HEAD~3
used to delete the latest 3 commits along with the changes
git reset --soft HEAD~1
used to delete only commits but not actions/changes
git reset --soft HEAD~3
used to delete only latest commits but not actions/changes
GIT REVERT: is a command that allows you to undo or reverse the changes made in a previous commit. It creates a new commit that undoes the changes introduced by the specifi ed commit, eff ectively taking your code back to a previous state without deleting commit history
git revert commit_id
used to delete a particular commit action and add a new commit for the change
GIT IGNORE:
It will be useful when you don't want to track some specifi c fi les then we use a fi le called .gitignore
create some text fi les and create a directory with "jpg" fi les.
GIT BRANCHES:
A branch represents an independent line of development.
The git branch command lets you create, list, rename, and delete branches.
The default branch name in Git is master.
allows you to work on diff erent features or changes to your code independently, without aff ecting the main or other branches.
It's a way to organize and manage your code changes, making it easier to collaborate and maintain your project.
COMMANDS:
git branch
used to see the list of branches
git branch branch-name
to create a branch
git checkout branch-name
to switch one branch to another
git checkout -b branch-name
used to create and switch a branch at a time
git branch -m old-branch new-branch
used to rename a branch
git branch -d branch-name
to delete a branch
git branch branch-name deleted-branch-id
Used to get deleted branch id
git branch -D branch-name
to delete a branch forcefully
The -d option will delete the branch only if it has already been pushed and merged with the remote branch. Use -D instead if you want to force the branch to be deleted, even if it hasn't been pushed or merged yet. The branch is now deleted locally.
Now all the things you have done is on your local system.
GIT MERGE:
Git merge is a command used in the Git version control system to combine changes from one branch.
To merge: git merge branch_name
GIT CHERRY-PICK:
Git cherry-pick is a command in Git that allows you to take a specifi c commit from one branch and apply it to another branch. It's like picking a cherry (commit) from one branch and adding it to another branch, allowing you to selectively copy individual commits without merging the entire branch.
Command: git cherry-pick commit_id
GIT MERGE CONFLICTS:
GIT makes merging super easy!
CONFLICTS generally araise when two people two people have changed the same lines in a fi le (or) if one developer deleted a fi le while another developer is working on the same fi le!
In this situation git cannot determine what is correct!
Lets understand in a simple way!
cat>fi le1 : hai all
add & commit
git checkout -b branch1
cat>fi le1 : 1234
add & commit
git checkout master
cat>>fi le1 : abcd
add & commit
git merge branch1 : remove it
git diff fi le1
vim fi le1
git add
git commit -m "fi nal commits"
NOTE: Don't give fi le name on commit
Identify Merge Confl icts:
see the fi le in master branch then you will see both the data in a single fi le including branch names that are dividing with confl ict messages
Resolve Confl icts:
open fi le in VIM EDITOR and delete all the confl ict dividers and save it!
add git to that fi le and commit it with the command (git commit -m "merged and resolved the confl ict issue in abc.txt")
GIT REBASE: Git rebase is a Git command used to incorporate changes from one branch into another. It allows you to re-organize and streamline the commit history by moving or
combining commits from one branch onto another.
Command: git rebase-branch
GIT STASH: Using the git stash command, developers can temporarily save changes made in the working directory. It allows them to quickly switch contexts when they are not quite ready to commit changes. And it allows them to more easily switch between branches.
Generally, the stash's meaning is "store something safely in a hidden place."
COMMANDS:
git stash
to delete the changes temporarly
git stash save "message"
to save the stash along with the message
git stash apply
to get back the data again
git stash list
to get the list of stashes
git stash clear
to clear all stashes
git stash pop
to delete the fi rst stash
git stash drop
used to delete the latest stash
git stash drop stash@{2}
used to delete a praticular stash
GIT TAGS: it tags are markers or labels that you can place on specifi c commits (versions) in a Git repository. These tags provide a way to give meaningful names to important points in the project's history, such as software releases or signifi cant milestones.
COMMANDS:
git tag
To see the list of tags
git tag tagname
To create normal tag
git tag -a -m "message" tagname
To create annotated tag
git tag -d tagname
To delete a tag
git show tagname
To see the details of the tag
GIT-HUB
GitHub is a web-based platform used for version control.
It simplifi es the process of working with other people and makes it easy to collaborate on projects.
Team members can work on fi les and easily merge their changes in with the master branch of the project.
COMMANDS:
git remote add origin repo-url
link local-repo to central-repo
git remote -v
used to get the linked repo in github
git push -u origin branch-name
push the code from local to central
git push -u origin branch-1 branch-2
used to push the code to multiple branches
git push -u origin --all
used to push the code to all branches at a time
git clone repo-url
used to get the code from central to local
git pull origin branch
used to get the chanes from central to local
git fetch branch-name
used to fetch the data from central to local
git fetch --all
used to fetch the changes from all branches in github
git merge origin/branch
used to merge the changes from cental to local
git push -u origin --delete branch-name
used to delete the github branch from local
git remote rm origin
used to unlink the github-repo
git remote rename old -link new-link
used to change the repo
